<p>After reading Alfie Kohn’s article on The Case Against Grades, I can see the pros of moving to such a system. For me, learning is all about making connections. Once the link has been made, things come a bit easier. Still, when I am only focused on getting the best grade possible to maintain a GPA, I don’t focus on making those connections, and I feel like I have learned less—as a result, devaluing my education. </p>

<p>I believe there is also something to be said about letting students go out and explore a topic. Last semester I took CIS 163: Java II, and we had three projects we had to complete for our semester grade. The first two projects were laid out and told us pretty explicitly what we needed to do. The methods of achieving those goals we up to us, but there was a pretty significant amount of structure, and we knew exactly what we needed to do to achieve the highest grade possible. </p>

<p>However, the third project was vastly different. Our professor threw away the guided rule book and provided us with only a single paragraph of instruction. We were to develop a gladiator game that had the player being attacked from all four cardinal directions. Both players and monsters were to have a standard attack and any number of four different magical attacks. That was pretty much all the direction he gave us. When we asked questions, seeking clarification, he left it up to us to determine what the game would be. </p>

<p>I can honestly say I have never had more fun during this project than at any given point. I found myself spending more time on it than any other prior projects and adding small tidbits like a welcome screen just because I thought it looked cool. I went out of my way to research topics not covered in class because I wanted this game to be the best game I could make. In the end, I turned in a finished project that the professor praised for its uniqueness. While he had a few suggestions on how to clean up the code, it was a fantastic experience, and I felt like I learned more during that project than any others before it. </p>

<p>Not only was this an incredible learning journey for me, but I found that I was excited to see what my classmate came up with. How did they approach the same problem differently? What could I learn from them and vice versa? Every project that was turned in was a unique creation by the student, and honestly, it leads to discussions with my classmates as we came together to collaborate and help each other. </p>

<p>This may have just been a personal experience allowing students to chase their interests within a given topic. Still, it tells me there is some credibility in what Kohn is talking about and worth pursuing. While this teaching method makes me nervous (as I have always used grades to measure myself), I look back on my experience with my gladiator game as evidence that it works. </p>
